add blog post for osp 1.15 (#1670)
tektoncd/pipelines-as-code: docs/content/docs/blog/release-osp-1.5.md

---

> title: OpenShift Pipeline 1.5 PAC release

Reviewer: Here and below, shouldn't the name of the product be 1.15? And the name OpenShift Pipelines (plural).

---

OpenShift Pipeline 1.5 introduces many new features for Pipelines-as-Code, here
is a list of the most important ones.

> ## GitOPS Commands

Reviewer: here and below, GitOps IMO

> The GitOPS commands are those small comments you can do a on pull request to

Reviewer: "do a on" -> "do on a". IMO "you can put on a pull request" sounds better.

> trigger some actions on your pipelinerun via Pipelins-as-Code.

Reviewer: What actions do you mean other than triggering a pipelinerun? If this only means triggering a pipelinerun, then just make it "trigger a pipelinerun".

The one you probably already know is `/test pipelinerun` to retest a specific
pipelinerun or `/retest` to retest all the PipelineRuns.

### Explicitly trigger any PipelineRuns without matching annotations

> It was previously only possible to trigger those PipelineRuns if they were

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously it was only possible to trigger the PipelineRuns with matching annotations
```

> matching the annotations. For examples the PipelineRuns would need to have the

Reviewer: example

annotation `pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-event` set to `pull_request` (or the
CEL equivalent) to be able to be re-triggered with `/test`.

That limitation has been removed and now you can trigger any PipelineRuns with

> `/test` even if it doesn't match. This is useful for example if you don't want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`/test` even without matching annotations. This is useful for example if you don't want to
```

> have a long running pipelinerun running and consuming resources on every

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have a long running pipelinerun consuming resources on every
```

iteration of a pull request but you still want to run it explicitly just before
merge the PR.

### Redefine parameters on the fly on GitOPS commands

When you run a PipelineRun you have a number of standard parameters that are
automatically exposed to the PipelineRun, like `{{ revision }}` will be

> expanded to the revision from where the event come from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expanded to the revision from where the event came from.
```

> The GitOPS commands now accepts arguments of the form of key=value that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GitOPS commands now accept arguments of the form key=value that will
```

redefine those parameters including the custom params. So for example you can do:

```shell
/test pipelinerun revision=main
```

It will test the pipelinerun on the main branch instead of the commit of your

> Pull Request. The only parameters that can redefine are the standard ones and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull Request. The only parameters you can redefine are the standard ones and
```

the extra ones you add as custom params on your `Repository` CR.

### Define your own GitOPS commands

In the Pipelines-as-Code version shipped with OpenShift Pipelines 1.5 we have
introduced a new on event annotations, called
`pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-comment` This let you start a PipelineRun when
the comment has matched the regex specified in the annotation.

> This let you for example define your own GitOPS command and start a PipelineRun

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to define your own GitOps command and start a PipelineRun
```

> on everything that matches the regexp

Reviewer: "everything" sounds ambiguous to me. Maybe "on every event"?
Missing "." at the end of the sentence.

> To make it even more powerful we have add a new standard parameter called `{{

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make it even more powerful we have added a new standard parameter called `{{
```

trigger_comment }}` which would be available to the PipelineRun and would
contain the whole comment that triggered the PipelineRun.

> ### Errors are now cleared between retest runs

Reviewer 2: is this talking about failure checkruns ???

Author: yes

We had a long running bug when there is a failure with Pipelines-as-Code that

> it cannot be handled (when for example there is an issue with the cluster),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cannot be handled (for example when there is an issue with the cluster),
```

that error was previously left after doing a /retest until we update the PR
with a new SHA, this now should get cleared properly

## Better error feedback on bad yaml

When we could not parse the yaml file in the .tekton directory, Pipelines as

> Code used to bail out and says, there was no PipelineRuns to match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code used to bail out and says, there were no PipelineRuns to match.
```

We now validate the yaml file before getting parsed and repo the error with the
exact validation error to the Git provider interface to help the user know
where to fix the issue.

## Global Repository settings support

> There is a lot of different settings that can be set on a Repository CR, those

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a lot of different settings that can be set on a Repository CR, those
```
